
                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                         ~~~~~~~ World Two ~~~~~~~
                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

_____________________
X - Start            |
# - Level            |
a - Extra Level      |
O - Empty Space      |
T - Tower            |
C - Castle           |
H - Ghost House      |
W - Warp Cannon      |
P - Pipe             |
S - Star Coin Toll   |
I - Item Toad House  |
G - Green Toad House |
M - Mega Toad House  |
                     |
_____________________|

          I                         M         G             I
          |                         |         |             |
          S                         S         S             S
X----1----2------------3------------4----T----O--------5----O----6----C
                       |            |                            |    |
                       |            |                            |    |
                  W----a----P       +--------------I-------------+    P


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 2-1 |
                               o-----------o

Head right for a Power-Up from a ? Block, which is immediately followed by
the first Pokey of the game.  Pokey is a segmented Cactus (originally from
SMB2) who can only be defeated by taking out all of his segments or shooting
him in the head.  Head past this obstacle (unless Firepower is yours, then 
roast him up) to find a Spiny and another Pokey, so use the yellow block 
with the face to make it past the next Pokey (hit the block and then use the
higher ledge to launch past the wavery cactus).  Jump forward to get the 
first Star Coin, but retreat back to the high ledge, as it will allow Mario 
to clear Pokey when he comes closer.

use the elevator that appears next, lifting past the next Pokey, moving 
right to leap past each Pokey as the elevators they inhabit drop low enough 
to let Mario by.  Drop down to the ledge above the quicksand, letting the
next Pokey move upwards out of range, leaving the jump and the second Star
Coin wide open for Mario.  A running leap will clear the gap and the Pokey,
which will also pass the halfway point for the level, leading to a Power-Up
in a ? Block.

Next up is an area with small ledges and moving platforms that are populated
by (yep, you guessed it) Pokey.  Jump ahead carefully, but be wary as Pokey 
can get onto the moving platforms, so he could become mobile and chase 
Mario.  If you lack Firepower, a quick jump down to the third Star Coin must
be immediately followed up by efforts to get high up once more, as Pokey 
will begin to close in on a moving platform.  The up and down elevators set 
(vintage SMB) will have Mario riding high on the first set, jumping onto the
second set, immediately followed by running to leap past the final Pokey,
reaching the pipe.  Hit the brick here to make a P-Switch appear, triggering
it to make the Coins above Pokey become a nice jumping ledge to go for the 
top of the flagpole!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 2-2 |
                               o-----------o

This level will reintroduce everyone to that rapscallion in the flying cloud
(Lakitu) and his pets he throws about (Spiny)!  Take on the three Red Koopa 
Troopas if you wish to, but mainly concentrate on getting the Power-Up while
moving right, passing the ledge to see Lakitu come out from behind the 
nearby Pyramid!  Lakitu will throw his pet Spinies at Mario, but if Mario 
can take out Lakitu, he will not return for a short while, and Mario may be
able to even hitch a ride in that cloud!  Run right to find a couple high ?
Blocks (one has a Power-Up) to attack Lakitu from, and if Firepower is 
yours, use it to take Lakitu from his perch, followed by stealing his ride!

With the cloud in hand, fly right until a coin path upwards appear, so 
follow it to locate the first Star Coin.  Jump off the cloud and run right
past more Red Koopa Troopas, jumping a gap when the Piranha Plant retreats
into his pipe, finding some bricks to Ground Pound through to grab the
second Star Coin.  Lakitu should have returned by now, so be wary of him as
you move to the right, finding a structure with bricks and ? Blocks in it
(note that this a tribute to a structure in the first Lakitu level ever, in
SMB's 4-1) to bust up as you desire, followed by locating a green pipe to go
down, which will launch Mario high into the air, directly at a pipe above 
(press UP to go inside).

Use the dual set of green pipes here tog et the Coins and third Star Coin,
then head down the pipe on the right to return to the main level area.  Move
to the right, suing the rocking toadstool to go jump onto the flagpole, 
ending the level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 2-3 |
                               o-----------o

Head down the pipe and go right past the ? Blocks, wall jumping to get to 
the Star Coin above the ledge, followed by hopping down the hole to move 
left to get a Power-Up.  After taking out the Swoop (N64 enemy!), leap over
the first trap door (go through for Coins if you desire them) to Ground 
Pound down to the lower tunnel, moving right to find a Piranha Plant and 
some one-way doors.  Take Mario up around the Piranha Plant location, 
keeping an eye out for the second Star Coin while en route, arriving at the
next area.

Head right to slide down to the bottom of the area, moving right again to go
hit a ? Switch.  At this point the game is split into two possible exits,
so take the Main Route to go on to 2-4, or choose the Alternate Route to go
after 2-A.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Run to the right, swimming past the opening above (you can go inside to find
some Coins if so desired), aiming Mario for the ledge on the right before 
the water level drops off.  Take a running start in this new area, clearing 
the massive Piranha Plant, continuing to the dead end to find a Power-Up.  
Jump up to the next set of challenges, moving left to leap over a Piranha 
Plant, climbing up the right side of the two choices here, taking a running 
leap to the right to make the small ledge there to go get the third and 
final Star Coin.  Return to the floor below, moving right to hop upwards 
through the ledges and the spinning manhole, taking off to the right from 
there to hit the ! Switch, using the now solid bricks to go right to leave 
the area.  Outside is a springboard to use for a shot at a higher flagpole
landing, so use it to finish off the level!

                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

Run to the right, leaping off to the right to land in the rising water,
swimming through the hole in the ceiling that is nearby.  Once inside the
large cavern, go to the left and hit the second ? Switch, swimming up at the
top of the water as it rises, leaping onto the high ledge that is briefly
accessible.  Head right to leave the area, arriving at a flagpole, so go 
grab a hold of it, ending the level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 2-4 |
                               o-----------o


Hit the ? Switch to go after the ? Blocks (getting a Power-Up from one)
before heading right, jumping a gap to find some Coins in ? Blocks guarded
by Green Koopa Troopas and a couple Goombas.  Next up have Mario knock a 
Koopa Troopa senseless, picking up the shell to go right underneath the 
ledge, jumping up to hit the shell right into the Piranha Plant, followed
by Wall Jumping to the Star Coin above the pipe.  Now head back left to go 
over the top of the structure, carefully going down the steep steps (passing
Piranha Plants) to get into the water, reaching a diveragnce in the level
pathways.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Start off by swimming to the right.  Drop down and swim along the bottom of 
the screen, passing under the land here to find a red pipe to go into.  
Swim through the small area here, collecting coins while dodging the 
Cheep-Cheeps, heading through the next pipe to go left (ignore the ? Switch 
for now) to get the second Star Coin, followed by hitting the ? Switch to 
escape the hole Mario is in.  

Head right to find a Power-Up and a ? Switch, so grab the Power-Up before 
hitting the ? Switch, moving off to the right over the two hills, launching 
right from the summit of the second hill to reach the high ledge.  The next 
challenge is an old favourite... HAMMER BROTHERS!  Using a vintage dual brick
structure setting from SMB, they guard the way forward and the third Star 
Coin, so take them out with punches from below on the bricks they are 
standing on.

Head right to find the staircase, and another blast from the past that is 
Super Mario Brothers, as Mario can use the Green Koopa Troopa coming down 
the staircase here can be used to gain a lot of 1-Ups!  To do so just stand
on one of the bottom steps, letting the Green Koopa Troopa come down to 
Mario, timing a leap straight into the air to come down so Mario lands on 
the Koopa so Mario will keep bouncing up and down, kicking the shell off the
stair above him for a lot of points and then the 1-Ups will begin to pile 
up!  Once you tire of this, continue up the stairs and go touch the flagpole
to end the level!


                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

For this exit you will need to be Mini mario.  When you reach the pipe in 
the water, head left as Mini Mario, running across the water, entering the 
mini pipe.  Once Mario reappears, head right and find the flagpole, so get
onto the higherledge via a Wall Jump from the left side to get a better point
value for the flagpole grab, but either way it will end the level!


                             o---------------o
                             | Level 2-Tower |
                             o---------------o

Start off by using the rotating elevators, getting the Power-Up from the 
? Blocks above the second set, followed by climbing above to go left, using 
the rope to continue onwards.  On the next rotating elevator, ride it until
a small ledge on the left appear, leaping to it to start a wall jump 
upwards, finding a door to enter, finding a small structure of blocks that 
move when touched, so keep performing wall jumps to get to a ledge on the
right, followed by jumping on top of the moving blocks to move left, getting
a Star Coin.  If you wish to shortcut to end of the Tower, use the second
moving block set to reach the top door, but if you want to do the rest of
the level, retreat to the door you entered by.

Back at the previous rotating elevator, go right this time via the rope, 
dropping down past the rotating elevator to get the second Star Coin, 
followed by going up again (feel free to go after the Red Coin Ring prize),
advancing by leaping to the ledge on the right, springboarding through the
green pipe.  Grab the Power-Up from the ? Block before moving on to jump
across the gaps ahead via the spinning bricks (hit the small red bricks to 
make an extra one appear).  When Mario reaches the third set, hit the red
brick to make some more spinning blocks appear, but instead of taking the
first two in sight, backtrack to the left to use one that was off screen to 
go onto the higher ledge nearby, where a well placed wall jump will get the
third Star Coin far above.  Once you are done, head back to the right, using
the two spinning blocks passed before to get to a pipe, finding the big 
doors!

Baby Bowser will attack Mario simply by running back and forth, attempting 
to ram him at full speed on a platform that is not complete, as Mario can 
fall into the quicksand below, making it tough for him to escape and battle
Baby Bowser without taking a hit on the exit.  The way to defeat the monster
is to hit him with three leaps to the head, though he will retreat to his 
shell after every bonk from Mario, so step away until he comes back from his
hiding game.  The other method for defeating Baby Bowser is to hit him with 
9 Fireballs, though the Fireballs can be combined with the jump attacks to 
beat Baby Bowser as well.


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 2-5 |
                               o-----------o

Head right, Ground pounding the ? Blocks for profit and a Power-Up, quickly 
running into Blockhoppers.  Use the Ground Pound to eliminate them, but
when you get a spot with Coins leading upwards, draw a Blockhopper near, 
allowing Mario to use the Blockhopper as a stepping stone to leap up and get
the first Star Coin.  Continue right, battling Spinies and Blockhoppers, 
finding a Power-Up at the halfway point, followed by encountering Fire 
Snakes for the first time.

head right while watching for some bricks floating in the air, indicating 
the next spot that a Blockhopper will come in handy.  Leap onto the bricks
from a Blockhopper, followed by Ground Pounding the bricks to reveal a
P-Switch, o go hit it and then use the path from the Coins that are now 
bricks to go left to get the second Star Coin.  head right to find another
member of the Hammer Brother fold, this one happens to be a Boomerang 
Brother, so approach him cautiously, stomping him en route to sinking into
the quicksand below on purpose.  While sinking, hold to the right, jumping
up to pass through the screen on the right, appearing to go downwards, using
the Blockhopper below to reach the third Star Coin.  All that remains from
here is to go back up to the surface, moving right past one more Blockhopper
(or use it as a stepping stone to reach higher) to get to the flagpole.


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 2-6 |
                               o-----------o

After passing through the first area, Mario will again be in a scrolling
level, with this one taking place on a few platforms.  Mario would be 
greatly served to have Firepower here, as the main enemy facing him are the
ever persistent Piranha Plant.  Ride to the right, busting the Power-Up from
the third ? Block, which is soon followed by a couple Piranha Plants that
float by harmlessly.  The next two Piranha Plants will land on the platform,
so avoid them while the ledge floats under a pipe with a Piranha Plant 
inside.  Stay away form the Piranha Plant on the right, as a ledge will 
remove it, allowing Mario to get the first Star Coin floating above the
moving platform.

Grab the Power-Up from the third ? Block, followed by using the small ledge 
that comes into play to hit the middle ? Block of the next set to make a 
1-Up Mushroom pop out.  Watch out for a Piranha Plant to land on the right 
side, leaping it to get on the higher ledge here for another Power-Up, 
leading to a dual Piranha Plant attack, so get between them on the higher 
ledge before they land, grabbing the second Star Coin that follows them.  
Watch out for the Super Piranha Plant that will float through next, so stay
high to avoid it completely.

After this the big ledges will begin to pull away, so jump onto the small
ledges that float on to the screen, leaping forward along the set, watching
out for the Venus Fire Trap (SMB3 enemy!) to get the third Star Coin.  
Continue to avoid the stray fireballs from behind, reaching solid ground 
where Mario must use the air pump to send the cork in the pipe flying, 
allowing him to pass through the pipe to find one last Piranha Plant to deal
with before reaching the flagpole to end the level.


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 2-A |
                               o-----------o

Move right to find a Power-Up in a ? Block, followed by dealing with the
Koopa Troopas and dodging the massive fish trying to eat Mario from below,
appropriately titled Spike Bass due to his spiky exterior.  Keep away from
him while moving on, taking the lower log path to get the first Star Coin
(draw an attack from Spike Bass first, then sprint through to get the Star
Coin easily).  

Next up are some springboards, so use them to launch high into the air,
collecting Coins and finding the second Star Coin high in the sky before 
advancing to find a Red Koopa Troopa, at which point the paths in the level 
diverge.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Go past the Red Koopa Troopa and into the green pipe, swimming upwards upon
exiting to find a springboard.  use this one to launch high into th air, 
holding RIGHT to land on the flagpole for a good score, ending the level and
unlocking the path to the Pipe!

                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

Perform a spinning jump from a springboard to land off the Red Koopa Troopa,
bouncing back into the air to reach the pipe on the ledge above.  Grab the
third Star Coin in this contained area before taking another pipe, this one
leading to an alternate exit flagpole, which unlocks the Warp Cannon that
goes to World Five!


                             o----------------o
                             | Level 2-Castle |
                             o----------------o

Let the Giant Spiked Ball roll into the pit below, followed by going right
past a couple Spiked Balls to get a Power-Up from a ? Block.  Next up is a
rope for swinging past a Giant Spiked Ball, swinging back and forth to get 
enough momentum to reach the ledges above, which lead to a 1-Up Mushroom.  
Next draw the Spiked Ball into rolling by before raiding the ? Blocks for a
Power-Up, followed by running a gauntlet area, stopping in each crevice or
leaping to a higher ledge to avoid the incoming Spiked Balls.  Upon reaching
the split in the path, Wall Jump up to the high ledge, running right to go
into the hole before the Spiked Ball arrives, grabbing the first Star Coin
in the process.

head down and then right, dodging one last Spiked Ball to get to the door.
Mario will appear outside, facing some Bullet Bills while grabbing a 
Power-Up, running to the right to get onto a Bullet Bill cannon to the right
and below a Star Coin.  here Mario will need to use a Bullet Bill as a 
stepping stone by performing a Super Jump (hold A/B Button when landing on 
the foe) to reach that second Star Coin.  Run through the narrow hall 
(ducking Bullet Bills) to hit the ? Switch, lowering the land to allow Mario
through, but he will need to first get by the Spiked Ball in the dip, 
reaching a Power-Up immediately afterwards.  Now Mario will have a choice to
make, as the level can have two possible outcomes.  Use the rope ahead to 
swing to the ledge above, collecting the Mini Mushroom here to go right over 
the gap, passing through the narrow passage to reach the third Star Coin, 
followed by making a choice on which level ending fight to participate in.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Grab the Power-Up from the ? Block before exiting the lower area to go past 
a Spiked Ball, hitting the ?-Switch, allowing Mario to enter the large doors
below.  Head right and Mario will come face to face with the Mummy Pokey!  
To win this battle Mario will need to put 9 Fireballs into the creature, hit
it with three Shell Dashes, or jump on the head of the monster three times
(you can also go Mega Mushroom on it as well if you are lazy).  The monster 
will attack by surfacing from the sand, spitting a projectile at Mario, and 
then disappearing below once more.  if you are going to use jumps to defeat 
it, only nail it when it is low enough to safely jump onto it.  Once 
Mario has won the battle, off to World Three he shall go!

                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

DO NOT get the Power-Up from the ? Block, instead exiting the lower area to 
go past a Spiked Ball, hitting the ?-Switch, allowing Mario to enter the 
large doors below.  Head right and Mario will come face to face with the
Mummy Pokey!  To win this battle while Mini Mario, watch for the Mummy Pokey
to poke out of the ground, noting the height it stops rising out at.  If it
is too high for Mario to leap over the top of, avoid the incoming projectile
and wait for the next reappearance, but when it does pop out at a low enough
height to attack it, jump directly above it and perform a Ground Pound 
attack to damage the Mummy Pokey.  Repeat this pattern successfully twice 
more and Mario will be on his way to World Four!


