                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                        ~~~~~~~ World Four ~~~~~~~
                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

_____________________
X - Start            |
# - Level            |
a - Extra Level      |
O - Empty Space      |
T - Tower            |
C - Castle           |
H - Ghost House      |
W - Warp Cannon      |
P - Pipe             |
S - Star Coin Toll   |
I - Item Toad House  |
G - Green Toad House |
M - Mega Toad House  |
                     |
_____________________|

          I                    I---Sa----+             G    I
          |                         |    |             |    |
          S                         S    |             S    S
X----1----2------------3----T-------O    O----H--------5----6----C
     |                      |       |    |    |
     |                      |       |    |    |
     +----------G-----------+       +----4    +----W


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 4-1 |
                               o-----------o

The liquid in this stage is deadly to the touch, so do not take a dip under
any circumstances.  Head right from the start, raiding the ? Blocks for 
Power-Ups and taking out the Red Koopa Troopas and the Scuttlebugs, arriving
at a dual Scuttlebug position over the deadly liquid, using a Super Jump 
bounce off of them to hit the Star Coin high in the air.  More Scuttlebug 
and Red Koopa Troopa bashing will follow, leading to a sea serpent (Nessie
from Super Mario 64!) and the halfway marker.

Ride forward slowly on Nessie, busting up the Scuttlebugs carefully, using 
the first Scuttlebug past the ? Block Power-Up to get the second Star Coin
(again the Super Jump technique is safest).  Once the five block platform
comes into view, a choice must be made on which route to pursue.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Ride underneath this five block ledge, continuing to take out the offending
Scuttlebugs, reaching dry land to take on a Green and Red Koopa Troopa.
Mario will now find some Donut Blocks to cross carefully, killing the
Scuttlebugs to gain access to the third Star Coin below (rush across the 
gaps with the X/Y Button), followed by killing the Goombas before launching 
off the ledge to use the Scuttlebug to reach the top of the flagpole to end
the level!

                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

Jump on top of the five block platform, leaping up from the central block
to reveal a vine, so climb upwards to enter a pipe.  Use the three 
Scuttlebugs here to Super Jump across the wide gap to land high on the
flagpole, ending the level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 4-2 |
                               o-----------o

Head right, collecting the Power-Up from the ? Block, followed by leaping
across the titling toadstools (purple in colour), leaping clear before they 
dump Mario into the emptiness below.  Continue right past the enemies to 
find a Star Coin high in the sky, so get past the titling toadstool to the
solid orange toadstool, taking a running leap to Wall Jump off the cliff
face above, bouncing up to said Star Coin.

Fight past a couple Koopa Troopas (and a Green Paratroopa Koopa) to find a
tilting toadstool that will have to be rode low enough to grab the second 
Star Coin before Mario has to jump clear.  Leap past the green Paratroopa
Koopa to find a Red Coin Ring, so pass through it and go across some tilting
toadstools to get all 8 Red Coins.  After this is a red Paratroopa Koopa and
some Red Koopas, passing over an area where some Coins lie below.  Bend the
next tilting toadstool to the left, taking a leap to the ledge on the left,
smacking the brick down there to reveal a vine going off screen.

Hit the brick on top of the cloud platforms here to make a new vine appear,
climbing it to find the third Star Coin, followed by going down the pipe at
the right side of the area.  Run and leap to the right, keeping Mario on the
titling toadstools for mere moments at a time, passing the final Red Koopa
Troopa to reach the flagpole at the end of the level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 4-3 |
                               o-----------o

Head down the pipe to go past some Cheep-Cheeps to raid a ? Block by itself
for a Power-Up, getting it before diving down to the bottom of the screen to
avoid the Mega Unagi that appears as the screen starts scrolling.  Continue
swimming close to the right side of the screen, diving down to get the Star 
Coin from the small cave below, followed by getting to the top of the area 
to avoid the incoming Mega Unagi.  If you pass through the Red Coin Ring,
Mario will need to swim in close to the Unagi in the walls, so best to avoid
it and instead concentrate on passing the halfway point to hit the ? Block
before the Mega Unagi appears.

Swim over the rocks but below the Mega Unagi, carefully dropping to the hole
below to get the second Star Coin between the two Unagis, followed by 
swimming right to hit the ?-Switch.  Now swim through the pipes ahead while
going underneath the Mega Unagi (normally the pipes spew bubbles, but they 
are shut off due to the switch) while keeping to the right, going down the
last green pipe to swim left over the Unagis, followed by dropping down 
after they try to bite Mario, getting the third Star Coin.

Wait for the Cheep-Cheep to swim through the top passage that is over the 
Unagi, followed by passing through while the Mega Unagi works over the 
bottom half of the screen.  Next up are more Cheep-Cheeps that are followed 
by a vertical swim between two sets of two Unagis (swim up the Coin path to 
stay safe), finding a pipe leading back to the surface.  Here Mario will
find a solo Goomba on the steps ahead, protecting the flagpole, so squish it
en route to finishing the level!


                             o---------------o
                             | Level 4-Tower |
                             o---------------o

Climb past the Dry Bones to Wall Jump up the moving granite blocks to get 
above the spot where the blocks stutter their movements, creating a ledge 
for Mario to use to jump clear of the potential crushing.  Raid the ? Block 
on the left for a Power-Up, then head through the door on the right to
face rising lava.  Jump to the fence above to start climbing upwards, 
grabbing the Power-Up on the left if so desired, continuing to climb.  When
a moving granite block on the left appears, run under it, get onto the fence
door above to flip around to the back, followed by dropping down to get the
Star Coin below.

Quickly climb upwards once more, finding more granite blocks to leap through
when they open, looking above this fence chunk on the right for the second
Star Coin.  Next up are a couple spiked granite blocks guarding a Power-Up,
followed by passing the Dry Bones to reach the halfway point.  Next is a set
of moving granite blocks that move back and forth quickly, so jump up 
between their movements, fading over to the right side of the shaft to find 
the third Star Coin before running to the left to continue the climb again.
Next up is a Red Coin Ring, so pass through it to collect 8 Red Coins while 
climbing (no enemies to worry about, so just jump up quickly and be 
efficient), gaining the Power-Up/1-Up from the challenge, followed by
passing through the large red doors to go after the boss!

Bowser Jr. will once again take on Mario, but this time he will try some
different tactics.  If Mario attempts to clock him with a leap, he will
retreat into his shell.  Instead, leap over his charges, drawing him into 
throwing a green shell at Mario, which he should hop on to stop it, followed
by kicking it back into Baby Bowser to knock him onto his back, at which
point Mario should perform a Ground Pound to hurt the little beast.  Repeat
this pattern two more times, and he will go down in defeat.  Also note that
9 Fireballs will do him in, and they can hurt him at anytime during the 
bout.


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 4-4 |
                               o-----------o

head right to find a Wiggler and a ? Block Power-Up, followed by a Red Koopa
Troopa, a gap, and a couple Wigglers, the second of which will be below a 
Red Coin Ring (if triggered, use the SUper Jump off the back of the Wiggler
to reach the higher Red Coins).  The next red Koopa Troopa that appears 
should be stomped, followed by grabbing the shell before hopping down the 
next gap while holding RIGHT, killing the Wiggler down there and obtaining 
the Star Coin.

Wall Jump back to the area above, going right across the Donut Blocks to
find a rotating Power-Up, followed by busting the bricks to make a vine to
climb, moving left to hit the invisible block to the left of the brick and 
? Block, a\making a new vine to climb to reach the Star Coin above. Now
continue on to the right, fighting the Red Koopa Troopa, throwing it through
the enemies ahead to clear a path, finding a portion with small pipes and a 
Star Coin over a pit.  

Jump towards the wall by the Star Coin, Wall Jumping after collecting it, 
landing on the pipes once more, followed by going past the two Wigglers to 
find a row of Green Paratroopa Koopas to bust up with one hop at a time, 
earning a 1-Up if all are de-winged by your efforts.  Head through the pipe
to jump off to the right to find the flagpole and end the level!


                          o---------------------o
                          | Level 4-Ghost House |
                          o---------------------o

Hit the ? Block for the Power-Up, followed by a series of Boos to avoid, 
reaching a door,  Inside Mario will need to hit the ?-Switch, dropping some 
? Blocks down, so hit them if you wish, but be sure to get on top of one 
before the ticker runs out, as they will lift Mario up to a high ledge in 
the previous area, reaching the first Star Coin on the right.  On the right 
is a Balloon Boo, so face it while dropping down to run underneath it, 
turning to leap upwards, followed by going left to hit the !-Switch, using 
the now solid bricks to go through the door on the right.

Hit the !-Switch that is nearby, allowing Mario to Wall Jump up between the
red bricks to find the second Star Coin, followed by moving left to drop 
down to the same area, letting the !-Switch reappear to let Mario bust it 
once more.  At this point a choice in paths occurs, so choose between the
Main Route or the Alternate Route.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Run to the right, spotting a pipe to go through above, coming out near a 
Balloon Boo, so head left, leaping up the ledges there to find some ? 
Blocks, which are near a long ledge above (get onto here).  Head right from 
here to find the door that leads outside, taking Mario to the flagpole!

                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

For this exit to work Mario must have and use a Mini Mushroom.  After eating
the Mini Mushroom, head right to the ledge below the pipe, followed by 
hopping onto the red bricks and then onto the pipe (not into it).  Now have
Mario jump high up the pipe, Wall Jumping off of it to reach a ledge on the
right side of the area, jumping up the remaining passage area to find a 
door.  Before using it however, Wall Jump up to get the third Star Coin
twinkling high above, followed by going out the door, leading outside to 
where a single Boo will attack from the left, but just ignore it and go grab
the flagpole to end the level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 4-5 |
                               o-----------o

Head down the pipe to see a Bob-Omb in the area above, so hit it and the ? 
Block from below, letting the Bob_omb clear the bricks to send the Power-Up
to Mario waiting below.  Move on to find a Bob-Omb spewing pipe, so stomp 
one of the black bombs to blow the wall apart, allowing Mario to pass 
through to deal with a Red Koopa Troopa and a Buzzy Beetle from the ceiling.
Next are two Bob-Ombs contained in a small area, so hit one from below on 
the right side of their room, allowing Mario to jump up on the left side of
their ledge once they blow to hit the bricks above, revealing a 1-Up 
Mushroom for him to grab as he leaps across the gap ahead.

After passing the halfway point, pass the first two Bob-Ombs to find a 
Bob-Omb in a bricked off room to stomp, blowing out the wall beside the Star
Coin, allowing Mario to grab it before crossing the first drawbridge.  On
the second drawbridge have Mario clock the Bob-Omb close to the middle of 
the drawbridge, blowing a hole there to let him leap up and get the second 
Star Coin, followed by some Spinies on the roof.

When Mario arrives at a pipe that drops Bob-Ombs, stomp one and drop it down
between the drawbridge portions, landing it on the covered pipe below, 
busting the blocks there to allow Mario to enter, locating the third Star
Coin... after doing some more Bob-Omb demolition of course.  After heading 
back through the pipe on the right, move onwards to avoid one more Spiny, 
entering the pipe to go find the flagpole outside!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 4-6 |
                               o-----------o

Mario is back into the poisonous liquid area, so do not take a dip or you 
will be -1 in the lives department.  Go right, killing the classic Super 
Mario Brothers enemies, finding faithful Nessie ready to give Mario a lift 
once more.  Get the Power-Up off the first ledge before getting back onto 
Nessie, riding her towards a Red Coin Ring, but you will want to skip it and
go onto the land to get the first Star Coin, which happens to be viciously 
guarded by two Red Koopa Troopas!

Anyway, once Nessie emerges from underneath the island, jump onto her head 
again, continuing to cruise ahead to find a Coin Block on the next island,
with the island after infested with Piranha Plants (bypass them to get back
onto Nessie).  Hit the P-Switch that appears next to make grabbing the second
Star Coin go smoother, facing a gauntlet of Piranha Plants and Red 
Paratroopa Koopas, but to make things easy jump between the first two pipes 
to reveal a hidden Invincible Starman (ducking and leaping will get Mario 
through if he did not get the Invincible Starman, just watch the range of the
creatures before reaching them to know where to move to avoid their 
attacks).

After passing through this nasty portion of the level, wait for Nessie to 
rise up, allowing Mario to hit the !-Switch above to make the dotted lines
ahead into bricks, letting Mario enter the pipe to slide down a slope 
through the various foes, finding the third Star Coin!  Now get the 1-Up
Mushroom from the nearby ? Block, heading down the pipe next to clobber a 
Green Koopa Troopa and two Goombas to reach the pipe, which leads to the 
flagpole, ending the leisurely ride upon the great sea serpent.


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 4-A |
                               o-----------o

Start out by performing the enemy kill and vine swing over the poisonous 
liquid, doing this several times until Mario reaches a water paddle.  To
make this object mover, go on the left side of the object, jumping up to the
next ledge that comes down as Mario sinks towards the liquid, thus keeping 
himself safe and moving the contraption across the gap to the next portion 
of land.  Repeat this procedure to reach the halfway point, waylaying the
Red Koopa Troopas to get their Power-Up they guard in the ? Block, followed 
by crossing another expanse of deadly liquid to reach a higher ledge.

The next water paddle will have a Green and red Paratroopa Koopa guarding a 
Star Coin, so Super Jump off the Red version to grab it before continuing 
across, finding a Green Paratroopa Koopa to Super Jump off of, grabbing the
vine above.  Swing onto the ledge on the right, entering the pipe to climb 
on top of the bricks, hitting the P-Switch to get the second Star Coin 
below, also taking the time to kick a Koopa Troopa shell through the other
Koopa Troopas to gain a 1-Up and lots of points.

Head down the pipe on the right to find a leap across a gap to some pipes
(time it so the Piranha Plants are not out), followed by swinging across to
a triple set of Piranha Plant pipes, going down the pipe on the left, 
finding the third Star Coin up for grabs via a Wall Jump.  Back to the 
surface goes Mario, continuing on to the right to pass through the pipe 
ahead, using the vine to get to the high ledge, allowing Mario to get a high
position on the flagpole, ending the level!


                             o----------------o
                             | Level 4-Castle |
                             o----------------o

Use the swinging platforms to get across the lava, getting a Power-Up along
the way, taking note of the second swinging platform that has a Dry Bones.
After disabling the Dry Bones, take a running leap off the platform as it 
swings towards the right, grabbing the Star Coin above.  Drop down and 
continue onwards, running at top speed to burn under all the Thwomps, 
followed by Wall Jumping up the Coin path to reach a higher ledge near 
another Thwomp.  Head past the Dry Bones to find a Super Thwomp, baiting it
into destroying the three rows of blocks underneath it, allowing Mario to
drop down to snag the second Star Coin.

Grab the Power-Up while dodging through the Thwomps and Dry Bones, bypassing
the Super Thwomp to reach the halfway point and another Power-Up.  Carefully 
go past the Podoboo to find a 1-Up Mushroom in the ? Block, followed by going
after the third and final Star Coin by carefully leaping down when the 
swinging platform is at one extreme end or the other.  Continue across the
lava ahead via the swinging platforms, dealing with the Dry Bones on the
platforms and with the Podoboo attacks occurring from below.  Once Mario 
reaches the end of this gauntlet, go through the large red doors to reach the
boss fight!

After the Goomba gets enlarged, stomp on the ?-Switch in the pit to make some
platforms appear to allow Mario to jump high enough to get above the Giant
Goomba, delivering a Ground Pound attack to hurt the monster.  Keep at the
attacks from above, landing three total hits to take it down, ending the tour
of the poisonous waters of World Four!


