                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                        ~~~~~~~ World Five ~~~~~~~
                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

_____________________
X - Start            |
# - Level            |
a - Extra Level      |
b - Extra Level      |
c - Extra Level      |
O - Empty Space      |
T - Tower            |
C - Castle           |
H - Ghost House      |
W - Warp Cannon      |
P - Pipe             |
p - Pipe             |
S - Star Coin Toll   |
I - Item Toad House  |
G - Green Toad House |
M - Mega Toad House  |
                     |
_____________________|

          +----2----+        P----+-----------H----O---------+
          |    |    |             |           |    |         |
          |    |    |             |           |    |         |
X----1----O    P    O----T--------O    p  W---+    c    G----4----C
          S         |    S        S    |           |              |
          |         |    |        |    |           |              |
          +----a----+    +----I   +----b-----------OS---M         p


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 5-1 |
                               o-----------o

Let the Snow Spike chuck his ammo, bowling over the enemies and running
along, jumping the gaps to find a snow drift to cross, grabbing the 
Power-Up from the ? Block before crossing the drifts via those same ? 
Blocks.  head right past four Goombas to whack a Snow Spike, followed by
going after the Star Coin above by leaping off the ? Block to the right of 
it.  Another Snow Spike will attack, followed by the halfway point, a 
Power-Up, and a gap to hop to find Mario facing a Green Paratroopa Koopa to
Super Jump off of the back of to reach the second Star Coin.

Cross the snow drift ahead by the brick ledges, killing the Snow Spike to
run down the slope ahead and leap up to get the Star Coin above, though if 
you are Regular Mario, use the building blocks below to make a high enough 
ledge to leap off of to reach it instead.  Kill the Snow Spike while going
right, facing some more Snow Spikes and a snow drift, so bounce off the
enemies with a Super Jump to clear it, reaching the end of the area, letting
the snow fall off the trees before hopping onto the flagpole to end the
level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 5-2 |
                               o-----------o

Move down the pipe to walk underneath the Spike Tops in the bricks, whacking
the Spike Top patrolling the ? Block, releasing the Power-Up in the process.
Next are a bunch of Swoops that lead the way to a gauntlet of Piranha Plants
to go through, grabbing the first Star Coin from inside the brick case 
ahead.  As a fun challenge, Ground Pound the bricks just short of the 
gauntlet to release a 1-Up Mushroom, followed by getting through the Piranha
Plants to snag it before the cliff appears to swallow the valuable Mushroom.

Head right to find a springboard to use to hit the Star Coin above (it is 
the third Star Coin, despite it being the second one collected) when the 
Spike Tops are not in the way, followed by picking up the springboard to
backtrack to the left, hopping the gap to drop the springboard underneath 
the yellow pipe, followed by Mario going up and into that pipe.  Head across
the icy platforms, following the Coinpurse to reach the pipe it rests 
against, with a Star Coin twinkling above.  Use a Super Jump to boost up to 
the Star Coin (the second one in the level technically), followed by going 
down the pipe to find more Spike Tops to ignore while moving right, 
encountering a slew of Swoops, reaching a gap to span.  Move right past more
ebemies, reaching a spot where a green pipe hangs from the ceiling, 
indicating the branching of the path within this level.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Head right, going underneath the ice chunk to cross a couple pipes, followed
by scaling the ice chunks ahead while dodging the Spike Tops, reaching a 
pipe that leads back to the surface.  Now Mario just needs to scale the 
classic Super Mario Brothers staircase, jumping to the flagpole to end the
level!


                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

Get past the Spike Tops and head up the pipe when the Piranha Plant has 
retreated, appearing outside.  All Mario has to do from here is to use the
floating blocks to jump high up onto the flagpole, ending the level!


                             o---------------o
                             | Level 5-Tower |
                             o---------------o

This level will consist of Mario having to ride the wooden elevator ledge 
upwards, so get ready to dodge or kill all incoming enemies.  Leap the first
Spiked ball, followed by collecting the first Star Coin, followed by raiding
the ? Blocks on the left for a Power-Up.  Next up is a Spiked Ball that will
hang around the wooden elevator, but it will destroy the Dry Bones that have
started to appear.  A couple one roll through Spiked Balls are next, 
followed closely by two more Spiked Balls that kill Dry Bones, at which 
point the second Star Coin should be visible.

Avoid the two Spiked balls that are rolling around here, getting the ? Block
Power-Up, with the following ? Block set (the one on the right) holding a
1-Up Mushroom.  Immediately after this portion get Mario towards the right
side of the ledge as a Giant Spiked Ball will destroy the bricks on the 
left, signaling the point for Mario to start hopping up the ledges ahead,
keeping himself above the nasty implement.  Keep hopping upwards, fading to 
the right to get the third Star Coin on that side, followed by getting onto
the ledges to leap upwards as soon as ledges appear because that Giant 
Spiked Ball will get back to the right side soon enough.  Punch the bricks
on the right to gain one last Power-Up, followed by passing through the 
large red doors to encounter the boss fight!

Bowser Jr. will return to his old tricks, simply trying to charge into 
Mario, though he can also leap into the air if given enough time.  Deliver
three stomps or nine fireballs or a combination of the two, beating the foe
quickly, but be wary of the icy platform, as it can make controlling Mario
precisely a difficult job.


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 5-3 |
                               o-----------o

Slide down the slopes here after grabbing the Power-Up, taking out multiple
enemies and getting a 1-Up or two for your efforts.  Once Mario runs out of
momentum, jump to the ice block ledge on the right to take out a Red Koopa
Troopa, as he is guarding the first Star Coin.  Jump down through a Coin to 
reach a ledge, followed by moving right to pass Goombas and Green Koopa 
Troopas, reaching the halfway point, which also has a nearby Power-Up to 
grab from a ? Block.

Jump the gap ahead an take a run at the small gap ahead, ducking to perform
a Slide Duck, passing through to find a Star Coin encased in breakable 
bricks.  Continue onwards, passing the gap to bounce the Snailicorns off the
icy platforms before they do so to Mario, reaching a spot where Coins lead
up the walls above.  Wall Jump off the right wall, snagging the third Star
Coin, followed by going right once more, clobbering or avoiding the 
Snailicorns, finding two Green Koopa Troopas to take out before leaping onto
the flagpole to end the level!


                          o---------------------o
                          | Level 5-Ghost House |
                          o---------------------o

Let the Broozer take out the bricks, allowing Mario to pop the ? Blocks 
below with a Ground Pound, revealing a Power-Up.  Climb the stairs to reach
a point where a Broozer will bust out of the wall on the right, drawing it 
down onto the stairs before hopping through the hole it made, baiting the 
enemy into destroying the bricks below.  Head through that opening (kill the
Broozer first if you so desire), locating the first Star Coin above via the 
Wall Jump.

Head back out to the first place the Broozer wrecked, going right to climb
upwards again until a door appears on the left.  Take a run down the stairs
and leap to it, entering to immediately Wall Jump up the bricks before all
the Broozers bust their way to the middle of the area, getting the second
Star Coin while they disappear off the cliff below.  Head back out to climb
right past more Broozers, finding a Power-Up before turning left to continue
climbing.  At this point the way forward will split in twain, so choose 
between the Main Route or the Alternate Route.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Continue climbing the stairs, dodging the Broozers to find a possessed 
elevator.  It will buck and throw Mario around, so dodge the Boos and grab 
the Coins, finally reaching the top, where a door leads outside, which is 
where the flagpole happens to be.


                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

Continue until Mario reaches a three brick block platform, so jump onto it
to jump and reveal three hidden blocks.  Get onto the central hidden block
and crouch before hopping (if you are small, no need to crouch obviously), 
revealing a vine to climb upwards.  Climb past the Broozer and let him break
through here, followed by dropping down to enter the door to find a spooky
elevator that will rock back and forth, trying to throw you off.  Once it 
free falls, get to the right side of it (upon landing on it again), holding
RIGHT to enter a path when it rises again, going past the Splunkins to find
the third Star Coin.  Backtrack to hit the brick to make a vine appear, 
climbing it to move left through the door, reaching the flagpole!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 5-4 |
                               o-----------o

This level will scroll along, so the same rules apply for getting killed if
caught between the left edge of the screen and a solid object, but the extra
danger is getting scrolled into the pits below.  Also note that the orange 
toadstools sink here while the darker toadstools rise up when Mario gets 
onto them.  head right across the sinkers to get a Power-Up, finding a 
rising toadstool as the first Bullet Bills appear from the right.  After
passing the next set of toadstools (and a Green Paratroopa Koopa), look for
a Red Coin Ring, collecting the Red Coins by using the rising/falling
properties of the toadstools to get the award.

Next are the remaining toadstools, leading into a hop to a higher ledge to
get the first Star Coin, but the second Star Coin is only accessible by 
someone with a Mini Mushroom (if you lack one, come back later to claim this
prize).  Head right to reach a rising toadstool to ride upwards, finding a
Power-Up in the first ? Block, followed by leaping across the sinking 
toadstools to reach the snowy ledge ahead.  Crank the Green Koopa Troopa,
taking his shell to throw through the bricks ahead, collecting the 1-Up
Mushroom that pops out of the ? Block, followed by getting the third Star
Coin on the right.  Now continue to the right, busting the Red Koopa Troopas
up as they appear, jumping off the last sinking toadstool to go after the
flagpole, ending the level by doing so!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 5-A |
                               o-----------o

Here the toadstools in this level will expand and shrink, so get to the 
middle portion (directly over the stem) to stay safe when the contracting
begins.  Get the Power-Up and head right, passing over the first chunk of
toadstools to find a Red Coin Ring, which will require Mario to get the 8 
Red Coins by carefully moving over the various toadstools in both the 
expanded and contracted forms to get the reward that you seek.  After this
is a Power-Up and the halfway point, followed closely by a lower toadstool
to get onto, going right to get the Star Coin.

After hitting the !-Switch, run left along the bricks to reach the safety of
the ledge, then head right once more, taking the high route to find a solo
brick to hit.  When the higher toadstool is outstretched, get to the brick,
jumping to hit as the one toadstool you are on contracts, allowing Mario to 
land on the one below while it expands.  Follow this by climbing the vine to
reach a P-Switch to hit, using the springboard to land on the brick ledge,
grabbing the second Star Coin.

Now head down the hole to return to the normal portion of the level, going
right to find the third Star Coin over a low toadstool.  Take a running leap
from it to reach the toadstool above, leaping off of it to hit the flagpole,
ending the level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 5-B |
                               o-----------o

Head right for a Power-Up, followed by facing off with a Goomba and 
Snailicorn, letting Mario take out two More Goombas en route to using the 
Green Paratroopa Koopa from the ledge above to boost that aforementioned 
ledge to find some Coin Blocks.  Next up are some more Goombas and a 1-Up
Mushroom on a slippery slope below, leading into a Star Coin on a small icy
ledge, so run to it if you are Regular Mario (from the left) or jump to it 
if you are Powered-Up (from the right).  

Move right to leap past the halfway point, fighting a Snailicorn to snag the
Power-Up, followed by grabbing the next Red Koopa Troopa to throw through 
the Red Koopa Troopas ahead for a 1-Up (jump the gaps to keep up with the
shell), with Mario arriving at a Power-Up ? Block.  Leap to the left and hit
the P-Switch, carefully crossing the now open gaps to get the second Star
Coin, followed by turning around to return to the right, going down past the
Red Koopa Troopas to find a branch in the paths.

Take the lower path, knocking the Snailicorn to the right, reaching the 
third Star Coin, followed by going back up to take the upper path, finding a
divergence in the paths.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Head right to reach the flagpole, jumping to the higher ledge to take a run
at the higher areas of the flagpole if so desired.  Either way, the slippery
level will be done with!


                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

if you are Shell Mario (or have a Blue Shell in reserve), Wall Jump up the
Coins on the wall here, reaching the ledge off screen and move left, finding
some bricks to Shell Dash to pieces.  Head through the pipe that is on the 
far side of the ice, arriving at a place where the Shell Dash will clear one
brick, allowing Mario easy access to the very top of the flagpole, ending 
the level to gain access to a pipe on the overworld!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 5-C |
                               o-----------o

Move down the pipe to locate a Buzzy Beetle, followed by a Broozer and a 
Power-Up.  Bait the next Broozer into opening the way for Mario, followed by
getting past him to bait him into attacking the bricks below the first Star
Coin, opening the prize up to collection.  Move right past the raining Buzzy
Beetle shells, finding a Goomba before crossing the elevator, looking in the
ceiling for a 1-Up Mushroom on the far side.

         _ _ _ _
ELEVATOR|_|_|_|_|
         ^
         |
      IN HERE

Now ride the elevator downwards, taking the lower path to grab the Buzzy 
Beetle when it falls off the roof (stomp it and pick up the shell), throwing
it into the Star Coin over the pit to make the snag.  Head back up to the
top and move right past the halfway point, taking out the Broozer that comes
down the slope ahead.  Now jump onto the bricks above, breaking the brick 
above left-most brick in the ledge you are on, followed by hitting the 
left-most brick in that ledge from below to make a beanstalk climb off 
screen, allowing Mario to climb it to find a Broozer and a P-Switch.  

Hit the P-Switch to make a ledge below for the Broozer when he falls down, 
followed by baiting him into breaking the bricks on the left to open the way
to the third Star Coin.  Now drop down and jump to the right, hitting the
flagpole to end the level.  Note that if you failed to get this easy way out
of the level, Mario will be forced to cross a large gap with a !-Switch
making the path appear of Mario, which is destroyed while he takes it by 
Broozers.  This is not a particularly fun way to do things, and besides, the
Star Coin is on the route recommended anyway!


                             o----------------o
                             | Level 5-Castle |
                             o----------------o

Head right across the conveyor belt and get the Power-Up, followed up by
bypassing a Dry Bones and the Piranha Plants.  When the conveyor belt
leads down to a ledge and a Piranha Plant is attacking from above, go low to
get the Star Coin, followed by leaping away to the right to escape the 
carnivorous plant, leading Mario to face a series of Dry Bones and gaps,
arriving at a Power-Up.  A Venus Fire Trap appears here, spitting fireballs 
while Mario goes by, finding a series of Dry Bones to jump over while
staying stationary just to the right and below the ledge where the second
Star Coin twinkles, waiting for a springboard to come down the conveyor 
belt, which is used to launch Mario to said Star Coin.

Next up are a Piranha Plant to pass to get to the halfway point, followed by
more Piranha Plant fun and a rotating Power-Up block (get the Mini Mushroom 
if you intend to take the Alternate Route), leading into a meeting with a 
Super Piranha Plant (let it fall to the floor below, then jump across the gap
to the conveyor belt above it's head).  Next up is a ? Block to hit, so after
doing that, take a running leap from the right to land on the block, allowing
Mario to leap into the small opening above, Wall Jumping to get up onto the 
ceiling, heading right over everything to find a Power-Up and the third Star 
Coin.  Now head through the large red doors above, entering into the Boss 
Fight!

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Petey Piranha will make his appearance here... yes, the Super Mario Sunshine
stand out will attack Mario, looking for some revenge!  Petey will start off
by flying into the air, trying to divebomb Mario (move out of the way as he
attacks), which will dizzy him, allowing Mario to hit him with a jumping
attack.  After this Petey will bounce up and down through out the room, so
dodge these attacks so he will take off into the sky once more, allowing 
Mario to repeat the dance two more times to finish off the beast and the 
World, gaining access to World Six!


                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

Petey Piranha will make his appearance here... yes, the Super Mario Sunshine
stand out will attack Mario, looking for some revenge!  Petey will start off
by flying into the air, trying to divebomb Mario (move out of the way as he
attacks), which will dizzy him, allowing Mini Mario to use a Ground Pound on
his head.  After this Petey will bounce up and down through out the room, so
dodge these attacks so he will take off into the sky once more, allowing 
Mario to repeat the dance two more times to finish off the beast and the 
World, gaining access to World Seven!


