                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
                        ~~~~~~~ World Seven ~~~~~~~
                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

_____________________
X - Start            |
# - Level            |
a - Extra Level      |
O - Empty Space      |
T - Tower            |
C - Castle           |
H - Ghost House      |
W - Warp Cannon      |
P - Pipe             |
S - Star Coin Toll   |
I - Item Toad House  |
G - Green Toad House |
M - Mega Toad House  |
                     |
_____________________|

     M         I    G                 +----G---------+
     |         |    |                 |              |
     S         S    S                 |              |
X----1----H----2----3------------T----4----5----A----O----C
          |                      |    |    |         |
          |                      |    |    |         |
          +----------------G-----+    +----6----7----+


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 7-1 |
                               o-----------o

Ride the platform to the right, grabbing the Power-Up from a ? Block, 
leaping to the next platform, riding it past the Green Paratroopa Koopas, 
staying board when it falls downward.  Now on a lower track, ride the 
platform left past the same Green Paratroopa Koopas, reaching the first Star
Coin, followed by riding right to leap to the cloud ledge.  Immediately go
past the brick to get onto the winged ? Block as soon as possible, riding it
to the right to find a pipe to enter, using the swinging poles to get up to 
the second Star Coin.

After raiding the room of Coins and a 1-Up Mushroom, head down the pipe on
the right to re-enter the level, facing a Fire Chomp (in fact, they will
attack you from here on out).  Head right, using the platforms to ride to 
the right, entering the pipe there to go onto the flagpole!

However, you only have two Star Coins, so head back through the level, this
time ignoring that winged ? Block, instead riding the platforms to find a 
pipe to go up.  Upon appearing, grab the Power-Up from the ? Block and then
take the top platform, riding it to find the Star Coin at the top of the
screen, leaving the same portion of the level you faced previously to go 
through, reaching the flagpole to once again end the level, this time with 
all three Star Coins in hand!


                          o---------------------o
                          | Level 7-Ghost House |
                          o---------------------o

This place can be very confusing, but that is fitting of the Ghost House 
legacy from Super Mario World.  I will be covering the bare minimum here,
getting you through the challenge, so feel free to explore the extra doors
at your leisure.

Hit the first brick here to reveal a ?-Switch, entering the door to the left
to find some Splunkins, a strange wavely floor, and a Star Coin as Mario
hops to the right to go through the door.  Back in the previous room, head 
into the door directly Mario.  Go left and Ground Pound through the odd 
floor to reach the second Star Coin, followed by Ground Pounding down to the
?-Switch on the right side of the room, entering the door that appears above
to get back into that central room once more.

Head through the door on the right side of the low floor, finding many 
ghostly hands that appear to be doing something, so track their movements 
and jump upwards, hitting the hidden block they were moving around, 
revealing a ?-Switch.  After triggering the Item, go right to ride the 
platforms that have appeared to go upwards, going left across the ledges to
enter the door before it disappears.  At this point the level splits into
two paths, so choose between the Main Route and the Alternate Route.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Trip the P-Switch and run off to the right, leaping across the gaps at top
speed (plow through the Boo ahead if you have to), leaping up the brick
ledges to find a solid ledge, so run to the right to find the third Star
Coin.  Backtrack to drop off this ledge, moving right to head outside, using
the winged ? Block here to land high on the flagpole, ending the level!


                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

Hit the P-Switch and take off running to the left, hitting the brick ahead 
that is shimmering (take the low path at the split, looking in the bricks 
above) to reveal a vine.  Quickly backtrack and leap to this vine before the
P-Switch runs out, climbing up to find a door to pass through, which takes
Mario to the alternate flagpole, ending the level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 7-2 |
                               o-----------o

Head right through the pipe, getting onto the moving ledge, which is 
controlled by Mario’s position on the ledge.  if you want it to go left or 
right while going up, walk to that side, and if you wish it to start 
lowering, run into a brick above to send it downwards.  Also note that the 
walls of the screen wrap around here, so use this to your advantage as well.

Anyway, go up past the Red Koopa Troopa (or stomp it and throw the shell 
through the Green Paratroopa Koopas on the right to possibly get a 1-Up 
chain) to raid the ? Block on the right side of the screen for a Power-Up.  
Ride the ledge through the narrow area head, taking out the Green Paratroopa
Koopas, arriving at a more open area where Mario should bear right to raid 
the enclosure on the right for the first Star Coin.  next for Mario are some
more Green Paratroopa Koopas and a Red Coin Ring (not really worth the 
trouble on this fairly easy stage), leading into a solid ledge above with
some Red Koopa Troopas to boot a shell through for points.

After this area the slow climb continues, grabbing a Power-Up from the 
? Block on the left, followed by riding past more Green Paratroopa Koopas, 
reaching some Coin Blocks on the right to Ground Pound, collecting the 
Power-Up from the ? Block as a finale on the ledge.  Pass the next Green
Paratroopa Koopa before stomping the next one down to the shell, grabbing 
the Koopa's shell to throw over to the right on top of the bricks, breaking 
through to hit and thus collect the second Star Coin.  

A few more ? Blocks to ignore (unless you really need those few Coins) will
lead into an area with massive amounts of Green Paratroopa Koopas to deal
with, so take out the ones on the left to reach the third Star Coin, 
followed by moving up and to the left to find a pipe to another area, where
a dual Super Jump effort off the backs of more Green Paratroopa Koopas will
result in a high position on the flagpole, ending the level in syle!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 7-3 |
                               o-----------o

Head right to pass a couple Wigglers, raiding the ? Block for a Power-Up,
followed by going down the green pipe to locate a an absolutely GINORMOUS
WIGGLER!  Jump onto the back of this monstrosity, riding along and grabbing 
Coins, facing challenges from Green Paratroopa Koopas and a Goomba producing
pipe.  Now be on the look out for a Boomerang Bro to take out from below,
allowing Mario to leap onto his ledge to reach the Star Coin he guarded.

Now go right to hit the ? Block ahead for the Invincible Starman, followed 
by moving right, revealing silver Coins where ever Mario sets foot, so 
collect some but be fast enough moving forward to keep reaching the next 
? Block so a new Invincible Starman can be collected, extending this Coin
bonanza opportunity.  While you are on this magical Wiggler ride, take a
running leap off of his body when he humps it up high near a ledge with a
Star Coin twirling around.

Continue onwards past the various foes (mainly some Green Paratroopa Koopas
and Goombas), reaching a ledge with a pipe... and a Boomerang Bro.  Take out
this guy quickly, allowing Mario an easy time getting into the pipe, popping
out to go right, Ground Pounding the first two bricks, one revealing a vine
and the other to gain access.  Climb downwards to find a ledge on the right 
to leap to for the third Star Coin, followed by leaping to the left to ride
the yellow pipe back up to the top.  Now all that remains is to hit the 
hidden block above the bricks, taking a running leap off of it to hit the 
high portion of the flagpole, ending the strange and unique level!


                             o---------------o
                             | Level 7-Tower |
                             o---------------o

Hi the bricks to find a Power-Up, then climb up the platforms on the right,
reaching some stone pathway to go left across to go up the red pipe.  Jump
across the spiked to go up a bit, passing under the first platform before 
halting to wait and leap on top of the platform that Mario just passed 
under.  Ride it upwards, leaping up on the right to get to the ledge above,
followed by leaping down the hole on the right when the granite blocks have
retreated, allowing Mario to reach the Star Coin below.  Now climb back out
of the hole by jumping up the moving granite blocks, jumping up past the 
spikes when they move to the left.

Carefully hit the ? Blocks on the left for a Power-Up before moving on,
climbing upwards to jump up one ledge at a time, followed by ducking to
slide under the spikes, leaping up to the next set of ledges when the coast
is clear.  After passing that set of obstacles, get onto the next moving 
ledge, leaping up into the first opening, followed by dropping down between 
the two spiky area, followed by riding it right to jump into the next 
opening to climb.  Mario will find a set of granite blocks to leap up, but 
unlike the similar area in the Level 1-Tower, Mario will have to avoid the 
spikes on the walls of the granite blocks while doing so.

Enter the door to reach the halfway point, so locate the Power-Up in the 
bricks before heading out the door to continue the climb, facing a block 
ride up to find another Power-Up to collect, this one in a ? Block.  Head
left through the next section with great caution, followed by jumping onto
the granite blocks, walking off each one when they go high, reaching a ledge
with the second Star Coin floating above.  Head left to backtrack, climbing
upwards to find a set of granite blocks that move in a sequence.  Send Mario
to the right when the opening appears, jumping up the ledges to reach solid
ground, followed by leaping up to the large red door and letting the granite
blocks close in and then move away, allowing Mario to leap to the left to 
get the third Star Coin, followed quickly by using a running leap to get 
back to said doors and pass through them.

Bowser Jr. will be using the hide technique if you try to leap on him, so 
jump over his advances and wait for a Green Koopa shell to be thrown, which 
Mario can stomp on to stop, followed by flinging it back to turn Baby Bowser
onto his back, allowing Mario to leap onto the exposed stomach.  Land the 
typical three hits to end the bout, but Bowser Jr. has some more of those
moving granite blocks here, so be ready to fight their momentum when leaping
and running around on this small ledge.


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 7-4 |
                               o-----------o

Use the springboard on the right to get the Power-Up from the ? Block above,
followed by going right along the bottom of the area, using the last 
springboard encountered to go up and left to find the first Star Coin.  Now
use the springboard to the right, bouncing off the spongy toadstool nearby,
going up and a bit to the left, finding the second Star Coin.

Head left and sue the springboards there to go up off of a couple spongy 
toadstools, reaching the halfway point on a solid toadstool, followed by 
climbing up to the next springboard, where the paths of the level diverge.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Use the springboard to launch up to the spongy toadstool, going up higher
to get the third Star Coin while floating as far to the right as possible.  
If done correctly, Mario will tough the spongy toadstool here, launching
him into the pipe above (if not, go try the same tactic again).  If you want
to enter a bonus area, use the springboards to go up to dive through the 
bricks up high, followed by landing on the ground, hitting the brick there 
to make the vine head up (no Star Coins in there though).  Anyway, 
springboard up over the large wall, going right to find the flagpole to 
finish off the level!


                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

Mario will need to have a Mini Mushroom equipped to make this Alternate 
Route possible.  Once you are Mini Mario, launch off of the springboard and
use the spongy toadstool to bounce high enough to land on the winged 
? Block.  Now jump into the small crevice above in the side of the rock 
face, followed by using a running leap out and then back toward the wall,
which will get Mini Mario into the opening above.  Head up the mini pipe to
go right, jumping to reveal a couple hidden blocks, which help Mario get 
higher onto the flagpole ahead, opening the secret route to the Castle!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 7-5 |
                               o-----------o

Head right to pass a Bob-Omb and a Green Koopa Troopa, followed by a couple 
Bullet Bill batteries that are guarding a ? Block set that holds a Power-Up.
Continue to the right, dodging the Bob-Ombs and Bullet Bills until you see a
Star Coin floating above, at which point you should stomp a Bob-Omb, 
followed by carrying it off the Bullet Bill cannon to destroy the wall 
above, gaining access to the Star Coin that was blocked off previously.

To go after the next Star Coin, Mario must be Mini Mario, moving right past 
the Bob-Ombs until a small pipe is blocked by one brick, which is where you
will have to put the Bob-Omb you choose to set off, allowing Mario to go
down the mini pipe.  Inside the cavern, have Mario move past the Micro 
Goombas (Tiny Huge Island from SM64!) to grab the Mega Mushroom from the ?
Block, moving to the left to push the pipe to the right that is covering 
the second Star Coin!

head up the pipe on the right to continue in the same direction on the
surface, passing a massive amount of Bullet Bills, Green Koopa Troopas, and
some Bob-Ombs.  Once Mario reaches a big brick set-up to collect the 
Power-Up from the lower ? Block (if he is Regular Mario, he will have to use
the Bob-Omb to get at the Super Mushroom) before hopping the gap to tangle 
with a Red Koopa Troopa en route to a dual Bullet Bill launcher site, where
the third Star Coin lies in between, so jump in there between the enemy and
get out quickly.

A note about this spot as well... if you bring the Red Koopa Troopa shell 
and throw it in between these two cannons, this spot can be used to kill off
Bullet Bills until time runs out, gaining lots of points and then a lot of 
1-Ups, so use this spot to stalk up for the challenges ahead if the extra 
lives are needed.  Anyway, head right to find a pipe covered by hard bricks,
which is the indication that level splits into the Main and Alternate 
Routes.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Head past this spot, Super Jumping off the incoming Banzai Bill to land on 
top of the massive launcher, using it as a stepping stone to leap off of, 
Super Jumping off of the Bullet Bills if desired to land high on that 
flagpole.  Either way, grab the flagpole to end the level!


                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

Stomp the Bob-Omb in the area and place it so it rests on top of the fifth
block from the left, destroying blocks to leave a single layer of bricks 
over the pipe.  Now backtrack to the left, stomping the Bob-Omb here and 
picking it up, dropping it right close to the pipe, destroying the remaining 
bricks to open up the pipe, so head through it.  Upon exiting on the other 
side, collect the Coins and go through the next pipe, resurfacing to go 
right, locating the hidden flagpole to end the level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 7-6 |
                               o-----------o

Head right through the opening area, raiding the ? Blocks and bricks for
Coins and Power-Ups (and a even a 1-Up Mushroom) by using shells on the 
lower bricks, all the while dealing with a mass attack of Koopa Troopas and
Paratroopa Koopas (both colours for both types).  Mario will run into a 
couple pipes with Piranha Plants inside, followed by a tilting toadstool 
with three Red Paratroopa Koopas to deal with before leaping up to the high
ledge to reach the halfway point.  It is here that level will split into a
Main Route and an Alternate Route, so choose wisely.

                                ==========
                                Main Route
                                ==========

Grab the Power-Up from the ? Block before continuing to the right, dropping
down before going right to leap up into the small area where two Green
Paratroopa Koopas guard the second Star Coin (the first Star Coin is hidden 
on the Alternate Route, so you will have to get it when you do that route).
Continue on to the right, taking out the Koopas to reach the yellow pipe, 
going down to enter a new area.

Although you can collect some stuff on the left, the goal of coming down 
here is fulfilled by Super Jumping off the three Green Paratroopa Koopas on
the right to reach a ledge to go up the red pipe, emerging to get the third
Star Coin.  Once the Green Paratroopa Koopas clear out above, leap up to 
start out to the right, dealing with another massive attack of all types of
Koopas, eventually reaching the flagpole, ending the level!


                             ===============
                             Alternate Route
                             ===============

Take out the top row of bricks and the two Green Paratroopa Koopas, followed
by punching the lower row of bricks to reveal a vine that goes up to a new
area.  Jump onto the toadstool on the right, which will move across the
large gap ahead, jumping to snag the first Star Coin while en route, 
reaching a pipe to go up.  Upon surfacing from the pipe, use a Super Jump
off of the Green Paratroopa Koopa to land high on the flagpole, ending the
level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 7-7 |
                               o-----------o

This level will scroll automatically, so go right to take out a couple Red
Koopa Troopas to get the Power-Up from the ? Block, followed by riding the
paddle elevator to get across the gap to the first Star Coin.  Now use the
moving platforms to advance to find a platform that leads upwards, changing 
the aim of the level from horizontal to vertical.  The Red Coin Ring is not
really worth the time, but feel free to try if you like, followed by leaping
off the ledge to the left, riding the first two Donut Blocks down to get the
second Star Coin (Wall Jump back up to the safety above).

Head left and up, passing the halfway marker while snagging the Power-Up 
from the ? Block, fighting Red Koopa Troopas, getting onto the highest Donut
Blocks to jump up and to the left to get the third and final Star Coin.  Now
head right across the donut blocks to reach a ledge of Donut Blocks to dive 
into a brick for a Power-Up, followed by going right to use a paddle 
elevator to go along the track, reaching two Red Paratroopa Koopas to Super
Jump off of to reach the high part of the flagpole, ending the level!


                               o-----------o
                               | Level 7-A |
                               o-----------o

Head through the pipe and go under the first ledge, leaping to reveal some
hidden blocks, allowing Mario to go into the pipe that is right by said 
blocks, gaining possession of a Star Coin.  Now go up the pipe with the
Squiggler inside, heading right to go past a Piranha Plant to find a pipe on
the right to enter, launching Mario high into the air.  While Mario starts
to fall down, slide along the wall on the right, Wall Jumping into the pipe
on the left, falling into a room with the second Star Coin (Wall Jump to get
it).

After heading back out, go left to fight a Squiggler, followed by going up 
the left pipe, going up to find some platforms above with gaps in between 
them, so start on the left and jump up to reveal the hidden blocks, filling
the gaps.  Go right to get up onto this area, followed by going up to the
next ledge to hit the halfway marker, moving left to get a Koopa shell, 
followed by dropping down to move right along the area with the hidden 
blocks.  When you reach the end of these ledges, turn and throw the shell,
followed by dropping down and running to the left, following the shell to 
get the 1-Up Mushroom that the brick holds.

Head back up to the area with the small pipe, moving right and then up 
across the pipe ledges, carefully maneuvering around the Piranha Plants and
Squigglers, going up through a pipe to find a ? Block that holds a Mini 
Mushroom.  Leave this area by going through the pipe on the right, jumping
to the right through the Piranha Plants (since you are Mini Mario, it may be
wise to call down your Reserve Item if you have one at this point) to find
a yellow block to punch from underneath to form a ledge to get Mario through
the pipe, finding a set of blocks to hop of to land high on the flagpole,
ending the level!


                             o----------------o
                             | Level 7-Castle |
                             o----------------o

Head right to leap onto some green blocks, which will move over a bottomless
pit, very reminiscent of a couple fortresses found within the game of Super
Mario World!  Ride along and jump the Amp, looking to leap to a Star Coin on
the right as the platform heads left, so get back onto it and leap the next
Amp.  Ride forward to get the Power-Up from the ? Block, leading into two
Thwomps to bait into falling, allowing Mario to leap over them, entering 
into the end of this green block express, so jump to safety on the right.

Grab the Power-Up after the halfway marker, leaping onto the next green 
block set, riding it through the twisty path it chooses, avoiding the 
gauntlet of Ball & Chains that populate the area, remembering that the 
blocks the Ball & Chains are connected to are safe to stand on, which is a
perfect way to get the second Star Coin that floats in this area (just 
remember to board the green blocks again as they steam on by).  Next up for 
Mario are Flamethrowers (an ode to the Airship Exhaust Ports from Super
Mario Brothers 3), so go underneath them or jump them when they are not 
firing, reaching the end of the line.  However, ride the green blocks as 
they fall, leaping through the third Star Coin en route to the ledge with 
the large red doors.  Enter these doors to go tackle the Boss Fight!

Jump up the platforms and head to the right, running into a Lakitu who 
controls the power of lightning... his name is Lakithunder!  Lakithunder 
will attack from his remote position above, throwing Spinies down for Mario
to dodge, which he augments with vicious thunderclaps from above.  Keep 
avoiding the attacks to outwait Lakithunder, who will make a divebomb at 
Mario, at which point Mario should leap onto his head to damage him.  repeat
the pattern two more times, knocking him out and heading out for the last
World in the game!


