                                o--------o
                                | Bosses |
                                o--------o

Just a quick note for all bosses (except 8-Castle Two), these are the following
damage scales, assuming each Boss has a total of 9 Hit Points when the battle 
begins:

Jump----------> 3 Hit Points
Fireball------> 1 Hit Point
Ground Pound--> 6 Hit Points
Mega Mushroom-> one hit kill

                                  =======
                                  1-Tower
                                  =======

Baby Bowser will attack Mario simply by running back and forth, attempting 
to ram him at full speed.  The way to defeat the monster is to hit him with
three leaps to the head, though he will retreats to his shell after every
bonk from Mario, so step away until he comes back from his hiding game.  The
other method for defeating Baby Bowser is to hit him with 9 Fireballs, 
though the Fireballs can be combined with the jump attacks to beat Baby 
Bowser as well.  Consider the Jump attacks remove 3 Hit Point Points and the 
Fireballs remove 1 Hit Point, meaning that to beat Baby Bowser, 9 Hit Points
must be removed.


                                 ========
                                 1-Castle
                                 ========

Baby Bowser will send in Bowser to fight against Mario... on a breakaway
bridge.  Yes, Baby Bowser has never read a history book apparently on the
entire game of Super Mario Brothers.  Anyway, Boswer can be taken down 
through three particular strategies:

  i) The easiest way to beat him is to get onto the elevator floating on the 
     bridge, waiting for Bowser to draw near so Mario can take a running
     leap past the beast to hit the switch and drop Bowser into the lava.

 ii) Fireballs can roast the beast, taking him out in a few short bursts.
     Although this manner will drop Bowser into the lava below, only hitting
     the switch will end the battle.

iii) This is an unorthodox option, but as Shell Mario you can bash Bowser 
     until he falls into the lava defeated.  The same rules apply for 
     hitting the switch to end the level.


                                  =======
                                  2-Tower
                                  =======

Baby Bowser will attack Mario simply by running back and forth, attempting 
to ram him at full speed on a platform that is not complete, as Mario can 
fall into the quicksand below, making it tough for him to escape and battle
Baby Bowser without taking a hit on the exit.  The way to defeat the monster
is to hit him with three leaps to the head, though he will retreat to his 
shell after every bonk from Mario, so step away until he comes back from his
hiding game.  The other method for defeating Baby Bowser is to hit him with 
9 Fireballs, though the Fireballs can be combined with the jump attacks to 
beat Baby Bowser as well.


                                 ========
                                 2-Castle
                                 ========

Head right and Mario will come face to face with the Mummy Pokey!  To win 
this battle Mario will need to put 9 Fireballs into the creature, hit it 
with three Shell Dashes, or jump on the head of the monster three times 
(you can also go Mega Mushroom on it as well if you are lazy).  The monster 
will attack by surfacing from the sand, spitting a projectile at Mario, and 
then disappearing below once more.  if you are going to use jumps to defeat 
it, only nail it when it is low enough to safely jump onto it.  Once 
Mario has won the battle, off to World Three he shall go!


                             OR AS MINI Mario!


Head right and Mario will come face to face with the Mummy Pokey!  To win 
this battle while Mini Mario, watch for the Mummy Pokey to poke out of the 
ground, noting the height it stops rising out at.  If it is too high for 
Mario to leap over the top of, avoid the incoming projectile and wait for 
the next reappearance, but when it does pop out at a low enough height to 
attack it, jump directly above it and perform a Ground Pound attack to 
damage the Mummy Pokey.  Repeat this pattern successfully twice more and 
Mario will be on his way to World Four!


                                  =======
                                  3-Tower
                                  =======

Bowser Jr. attacks here as usual, charging back and forth in an attempt to
run into Mario, but this time his platform has water all underneath it, so
falling in will make it tough to get back onto the ledge without taking a
hit in the process.  The usual 3 stomps or 9 Fireballs or a combination of
the two will end the battle, chasing Bowser Jr. from another Tower!


                                 ========
                                 3-Castle
                                 ========

Go to the right to find a bridge set up with fish below it, including the 
boss, Cheepskipper!  To defeat this foe, leap onto his head as he jumps up
above the bridge, getting him three times to beat him.  Just note that Mario
also has to contend with the leaping Cheep-Cheeps while doing this, and that
Fireballs can defeat the foe in 9 hits.  Not a tough boss, just leap 
carefully to defeat it, ending the tour of World Three!


                                  =======
                                  4-Tower
                                  =======

Bowser Jr. will once again take on Mario, but this time he will try some
different tactics.  If Mario attempts to clock him with a leap, he will
retreat into his shell.  Instead, leap over his charges, drawing him into 
throwing a green shell at Mario, which he should hop on to stop it, followed
by kicking it back into Baby Bowser to knock him onto his back, at which
point Mario should perform a Ground Pound to hurt the little beast.  Repeat
this pattern two more times, and he will go down in defeat.  Also note that
9 Fireballs will do him in, and they can hurt him at anytime during the 
bout.


                                 ========
                                 4-Castle
                                 ========

After the Goomba gets enlarged, stomp on the ?-Switch in the pit to make some
platforms appear to allow Mario to jump high enough to get above the Giant
Goomba, delivering a Ground Pound attack to hurt the monster.  Keep at the
attacks from above, landing three total hits to take it down.


                                  =======
                                  5-Tower
                                  =======

Bowser Jr. will return to his old tricks, simply trying to charge into 
Mario, though he can also leap into the air if given enough time.  Deliver
three stomps or nine fireballs or a combination of the two, beating the foe
quickly, but be wary of the icy platform, as it can make controlling Mario
precisely a difficult job.


                                 ========
                                 5-Castle
                                 ========

Petey Piranha will make his appearance here... yes, the Super Mario Sunshine
stand out will attack Mario, looking for some revenge!  Petey will start off
by flying into the air, trying to divebomb Mario (move out of the way as he
attacks), which will dizzy him, allowing Mario to hit him with a jumping
attack.  After this Petey will bounce up and down through out the room, so
dodge these attacks so he will take off into the sky once more, allowing 
Mario to repeat the dance two more times to finish off the beast and the 
World, gaining access to World Six!

                             OR AS MINI Mario!

Petey Piranha will make his appearance here... yes, the Super Mario Sunshine
stand out will attack Mario, looking for some revenge!  Petey will start off
by flying into the air, trying to divebomb Mario (move out of the way as he
attacks), which will dizzy him, allowing Mini Mario to use a Ground Pound on
his head.  After this Petey will bounce up and down through out the room, so
dodge these attacks so he will take off into the sky once more, allowing 
Mario to repeat the dance two more times to finish off the beast and the 
World, gaining access to World Seven!


                               ===========
                               6-Tower One
                               ===========

Bowser Jr. is again trying to charge and leap into Mario, so use the usual
attacks of three stomps or nine fireballs or a combination of the two will
take out the enemy.  However, this time Bowser Jr. has an extra trick up his
sleeve, which is the platform that will tilt as Mario and Bowser Jr. move 
around, so be careful to not fall into the spikes below.


                               ===========
                               6-Tower Two
                               ===========

Bowser Jr. will have reverted to his entering of his shell when Mario draws 
near, so leap over his charge, forcing Baby Bowser to huck a shell at you.
Stomp the shell and pick it up to hurl back, allowing Mario to land a leap
to the underside of the small Koopa.  Complicating this is the tilting
platform and the lava below, so be careful to keep stable footing through 
out the battle.  Note that Bowser Jr. can also be smoked by 9 Fireballs if 
you have the Firepower at any time, so feel free to roast him quickly!


                                 ========
                                 6-Castle
                                 ========

The Monty Mole Tank will fire off Bullet Bills, swinging the turret around
to try and hit Mario.  To further complicate this, Monty Mole will pop out
of the tank periodically to throw a Bob-Omb into the mix, but this is also
happens to be the time to go after the malicious Mole, leaping onto him 
before he can chuck the Bob-Omb.  This will cause Monty Mole to lose control
of the tank temporarily, which will fire off Bullet Bills in various 
directions until he regains control, at which point the cycle begins over.
However, each new round of attacks will have an additional cannon added to 
the tank, meaning Mario will have to scale the barrels of the weapons to
stomp Monty Mole.  Three hits will scrap the tank and Monty Mole, moving
Mario onwards in the game!


                                  =======
                                  7-Tower
                                  =======

Bowser Jr. will be using the hide technique if you try to leap on him, so 
jump over his advances and wait for a Green Koopa shell to be thrown, which 
Mario can stomp on to stop, followed by flinging it back to turn Baby Bowser
onto his back, allowing mario to leap onto the exposed stomach.  Land the 
typical three hits to end the bout, but Bowser Jr. has some mroe of those
moving granite blocks here, so be ready to fight their momentum when leaping
and running around on this small ledge.


                                 ========
                                 7-Castle
                                 ========

Jump up the platforms and head to the right, running into a Lakitu who 
controls the power of lightning... his name is Lakithunder!  Lakithunder 
will attack from his remote position above, throwing Spinies down for Mario
to dodge, which he augments with vicious thunderclaps from above.  Keep 
avoiding the attacks to outwait Lakithunder, who will make a divebomb at 
Mario, at which point Mario should leap onto his head to damage him.  Repeat
the pattern two more times, knocking him out and heading out for the last
World in the game!


                               ===========
                               8-Tower One
                               ===========

Bowser Jr. will be doing his usual throw the shell and get nailed, allowing
Mario to jump onto his stomach to damage him.  However, this battlezone will
have a couple extras trick to deal with, mainly the moving granite blocks on
the sides of the area, and two Flamethrowers will attack from below, so be
careful to not take a hit while chasing down Bowser Jr.  Three hits will end
the bout, sending Bowser Jr. scurrying off once more!


                               ============
                               8-Castle One
                               ============

Bowser Jr. will sic Skeletal Bowser on Mario, who is far less vulnerable 
than Bowser was in the first Castle of the game.  However, he still suffers
from the same beatable weakness in that once that switch behind him is 
touched, he drops form sight!  To perform this feat, simply dodge the 
incoming bone throws (mush like the SMB hammers Bowser could throw) and 
fiery breath attacks, waiting for Bowser to leap high into the air, at which
point Mario can go underneath and hit the switch.  Another tried and true 
way of getting to the switch is to just run right into Bowser, using the 
temporary invincibility to go hit the switch!


                               ===========
                               8-Tower Two
                               ===========

Baby Bowser will be doing his now familiar hide in his shell before tossing
a Green Koopa shell, so stomp the shell and throw it back to stun him, 
followed by planting a plumber boot in his exposed mid section.  Repeat the 
pattern two mroe times while watching out for the Podoboo attacks on the 
sides, and baby Bowser will make one last run for it!


                               ============
                               8-Castle Two
                               ============

Bowser Jr. will revive his destroyed father before the battle even begins, 
turning the bout into an unfair 2 vs. 1... if you were not the great Mario
anyway!  Start out by concentrating on Baby Bowser, jump his charges,
forcing him to throw a Koopa shell for Mario to stomp and throw back, 
followed by jumping onto his exposed stomach (though Fireballs really work 
well here), getting three hits to finish him off.  However, while taking 
down this wily foe, remember that Bowser will be attacking with his blue
flames that will track Mario down, but luckily their range is very limited.

Once Bowser Jr. has been dispatched, it is time to take care of Bowser.  
However, upon the defeat of scales and blood, Bowser will up the attacks, 
sending out multiple flames at a time, including three blue homing flames at
once!  Try to get in close to the monster, avoiding the flames (if the blue
flames come out, back and off let them dissipate), waiting for Bowser to 
leap into the air to allow Mario to go underneath him and to hit the switch
that rests on the right side of the room.  Note it is far easier to go under
him on the high leap, but it is possible to get under him on the small leap.

